Let's get into.
A little bit more of
a precarious subject here.
Conceptually, I love the idea,
but if something goes wrong,
I will say that this is
still new technology and
I think that there's very
few people that have deep
experience with federated modules or
micro front ends.
So, real quick,
who here knows what a micro front end is?
>> Commonly I don't use it,
but I have some experience,
learning a little bit about.
>> Right.
>> Angular and react is one point,
they want to have the angular and react.
>> Mm-hm.
>> Components that one team using angular
and then the other team using react.
So how can we share
the components together, right?
So there's some library
that we can generate,
the standard component or
reusable component that both Angular and
React can use together [INAUDIBLE]
>> Additional commentary from the corner?
>> I've understood cuz I actually use it
to some degree, it's the goal of building
the app so that a specific feature,
like cart, can be ran by a team and
deployed separately than the rest
of the entire application.
>> Bing bong.
>> But I've only done it
when it's on a sub-domain.
>> Okay?
>> Not I used to work for target.
I know their cart is a micro-frontend
on the same page as different features.
I just don't know how to do that part.
>> So you both have really
just hit on the essence.
It's the idea that you
take a single feature or
some functionality, and
you deploy that independently,
is essentially a standalone
remote application
that gets loaded in to a host or
shell application.
What this allows us to do,
which I think is really cool,
is that we can have any
number of independently
deployed applications that we
are pulling in to our host application.
So if you have typically
an application with four features,
and somebody makes an update
to one of them and
they wanna deploy it,
so this is a monolith.
We'll guess what?
You have to deploy all the features,
and this is where having to
coordinate that across the organization
can be really, really tough.
I have seen changes and
deployments sit in the queue for
over two weeks or more.
Now imagine we're talking like
a fortune 100 ish company
that it's sitting in the hopper,
because it required six or
eight people to be in a room for
this thing to deploy.
So from a technological standpoint
micro front ends are compelling.
From a human communication standpoint,
it's a game changer.
The fact that you have the ability to say,
I'm going to deploy my feature.
And I don't have to go get permission.
And I don't have to worry
about air traffic control.
And I don't have to get my
permission slips signed.
So I can do this.
This is really important.
Not only that is there are some
huge performance benefits for
being able to load your
application in pieces.
So with that said,
let's do an example.
We created the workshop feature
in the school directory.
Let's do one more and
I'm just gonna show it to you here.
So it's right.
In here, all the snippets,
so this is where I haven't,
there's a setting you can set on your
computer to just automatically publish and
I haven't done that yet, but don't judge.
All right, cool.
Let's, I'm gonna check
out another branch off
of this because we
are turning a corner and.
We'll call this Workshop.
Federated modules.
It's like that song.
Gotta keep on federated.
Anybody who was a teenager in the 90s
I know what I'm talking about.
Let's look at the.
Library real quick just
the file structure.
I think what I wanna do is, inside of.
They wanna put I don't think.
I didn't actually generate
a front-end application yet.
This makes it super easy.
All right, life is good.
So what we're going to do in the concept
of microphone ends is that you
have your host application and
then you have your remote application.
So the first thing that I'm going
to do is I'm going to generate.
My.
Host application.
So, following a pretty
standard format of mpx,
nx, g for generate, and
we're doing angular host.
And we're generating a remote application,
or
actually we're gonna generate this,
it's gonna be static for a moment.
Because I wanna walk
through what's happening
under the hood to make this kinda work.
And then we're gonna do a couple
things to make it dynamic.
So, putting it in the work I
wouldn't have even caught this.
There was a question about
should it be plural?
And so, thank you for that.
So, basic configuration.
I like SAS, Cypress.
I'm gonna add Tailwind.
I think Tailwind's pretty awesome.
And then prefix is the NPM kind of
a prefix that you use if you're doing
any kind of package aliasing or
whatever, all right?
Let this run and
we're gonna do this as provided.
I really hope that we can come to maybe
a better API run this thing right here.
I think it's funny that this when Angular,
no,
I think Angular got good around
Angular four and a half.
Up to then it was tough and I think one of
the big reasons, or I think how I got so
good, is because the Angular team
teamed up with the Amber team and
all of a sudden we got a CLI that
took care of a lot of these things.
So I think this looks right.
So I'm gonna generate this
again without the safety net.
And if I don't make it back,
you guys can have my records.
All right, so
now I have generated my remote app.
Now, I need to.
Generate, or my host,
I need to generate a remote app and so.
Let's think,
I'm not planning on digging into this.
I'm just thinking of something that
would have to do with a session.
How does that sound like sessions?
Cool, everybody, all right, So
let's go ahead and drop this in.
I wanna put the safety net on,
a seat belt.
And then the host, we do need to
fix that is gonna be workshops
And we're gonna call this sessions.
All right, this is look right I think,
feel free to yell out if I
spelled something wrong.
I think we're in business.
All right.
YOLO, okay?
Let's see what happens,
mpx, nx, serve, workshops.
I am just hanging in the balance here,
just riding the void.
It's funny thing the narratives
you tell yourself, you're like,
my God, just make this work.
I'll stop playing video games I promise.
[LAUGH] All right.
So what this has done is it detected that
we have the host and
we have the remote, right?
So, a host, one remote, and
it's picking up on that,
and this should work.
So, you can also see 4201
is where the remote is.
All right, let me come over here.
So what we have is this nx welcoming
thing which is not Is helpful.
Also very clever branding, good job, guys.
And what it's done is it's
generated two routes here.
And if I click on this,
everybody see that?
Wow, microfinance for the win right here.
So, how is this happening?
What reality are we in right now?
Well, it looks like magic,
it's not, and I can explain.
Let me close some of this down and
I wanna walk through
some of this code and so
we can see what's the deal.
All right,
the most important thing in this.
You have this module federation config,
so this is all happening through webpack.
And you can see here that
in the configuration.
We have the name of the host.
Then what we have is the remotes,
right, sessions.
And so when this spins up that Webpack
specifically is saying,
this is who you are,
but you also have these
additional remotes.
And so if I could generate two or
three more kinda remotes and
say, workshops is the host, and
then this would just kinda fill out.
And then if we go to.
Remember how I said with
the standalone API that
everything it's moving to a component and
more specifically a route centric,
kind of paradigm
is that inside of the workshops
we have a route here for
sessions and
it's importing sessions routes.
So that sessions is coming from
that Webpack config that we saw.
Then what it's doing is,
it's loading it and it's saying, hey,
go get me the remote routes.
Then I gotta figure out
where in the world.
The sessions, I bet it.
So this is kinda interesting,
I actually did not put it in
the school kind of subdirectory,
but anyways, it still works.
It doesn't matter.
So here.
It's exposing the routes.
And so I kinda had to click through,
as I was wrapping my mind around this, and
to see, cuz you have two things that are
totally unrelated in a way that are now
being kinda stitched together.
And it's ultimately happening
first at the webpack level,
but then also on the routes and
you're basically lazy
loading this entire application
is a micro front end.
And then if you go and.
Some routes I'm trying to think if.
Somewhere in here.
That's why, all right.
So it's pointing to remote
entering that's important, so
typically the convention is that,
within an application you
have a remote entry kind of a folder that
has kind of the hook into everything else.
And so, what we have here is
the basic kind of top level route.
And I can just scoot this over.
So, it's saying when you load this,
so in the down here,
so we'll just try to tie this together.
It's hitting routes,
kind of the key here, or sessions,
which is then pointing to the routes,
which is then saying,
when you hit this,
go pull in the entry routes.
And then the entry routes is saying,
kind of the root
route on this is the remote entry
component, drop it in and render it.
What I would also recommend,
at some point,
just kind of clicking
through some of this and
nothing beats a tour of
the application to just kind of
start to figure out what's happening.